#### **Title**
Revision to `Compound`

#### **Authorship**
Asuka Ota <asuka.ota@strateos.com>

#### **Motivation**
Some of the challenges in representing molecular structures in 2D include the lack of standardized representation with enough structural data, and the lack of standardized method to interpret one representation to another without altering the data it represents (as perceived by the end user). For instance, `standard InChI` 'InChI=1S/C8H9NO2/c1-6(10)9-7-2-4-8(11)5-3-7/h2-5,11H,1H3,(H,9,10)' represents a molecule that can be described by multiple SMILES including CC(=O)NC1=CC=C(C=C1)O, OC1=CC=C(NC(C)=O)C=C1, and CC(=O)Nc1ccc(O)cc1. In this case, each SMILES actually carry slightly different information on the atom locations, and represents different isomers while InChI collectively label them as the 'same molecule'. As a result, when the molecule is interpreted from one representation to another, the molecular structure can be misinterpreted.

We initially chose to represent Compound using `standard InChI`. However, the consensus from the primary users suggest that SMILES is more commonly used method of representing molecule, and each time SMILES is interpreted in InChI (or vice versa) there is a chance of misinterpretation due to the challenges mentioned above.

#### **Proposal**
Standardization of chemical structures represented with diverse chemical information in many different methods is a very complicated feat, and it is an ongoing effort in the field. To best minimize the chance of altering the molecular data or intent contained in the string, we propose to revise Compound class to utilize more widely used representation of molecule in the form of `Daylight Canonical SMILES` which indicates a canonical SMILES with isotopic and chiral specifications. SMILES was originally developed by Daylight Chemical Information Systems, and non-proprietary SMILES specification described in [SMILES Theory Manual](https://www.daylight.com/dayhtml/doc/theory/theory.smiles.html) has been the golden standard. `Daylight Canonical SMILES` is also more human readable, compact, and represents a specific molecular structure.

{
    "format": Enum("InChI", "Daylight Canonical SMILES"),
    "value": String
}

Example valid values for different compounds:

| Compound      | Example InChI Value                   | Example SMILES Value
| -             | -                                     | -
| Methane       | "InChI=1S/CH4/h1H4"                   | "C"
| Ethanol       | "InChI=1S/C2H6O/c1-2-3/h3H,2H2,1H3"   | "CCO"
| Benzene       | "InChI=1S/C6H6/c1-2-4-6-5-3-1/h1-6H"  | "c1ccccc1"

Note there are multiple ways to represent e.g. ethanol in SMILES including "C(O)C", "OCC", "C-C-O" to name a few. However, the canonical, unique representation of ethanol in `Daylight Canonical SMILES` would be "CCO". There is an algorithm to generate a unique SMILES from any one of these generic SMILES such as [SmilesGenerator](http://cdk.github.io/cdk/2.2/docs/api/org/openscience/cdk/smiles/SmilesGenerator.html), [RDKit](https://www.rdkit.org/), or based on a structure as in [ChemDraw](https://www.perkinelmer.com/category/chemdraw). It is important to note that `Daylight Canonical SMILES` is not a perfect solution as SMILES canonicalization algorithm depends on the software package, and it is recommended to compare SMILES strings within the same platform to best preserve the structural information. Furthermore, the interpretation of different representation methods is up to the vendor.

#### **Compatibility**
This introduces change in existing Compound class. Other methods that utilize Compound may need to be updated to reflect the change.