#### **Title**
Add `informatics` to Autoprotocol instruction schema

#### **Authorship**
Asuka Ota <asuka.ota@strateos.com>

#### **Motivation**
In the current form, Autoprotocol is unable to capture a scientific intent at the molecular
level upon execution of an `instruction`. One of the examples is pcr whereby a mixture of nucleotides
and polymerase are mixed in a vial to synthesize new molecules via `thermocycle`. In another case, a user may want
to purify a compound of interest from a mixture of compounds in instructions such as `spe` and/or `lcms`. In 
addition to the physical execution parameters, there should be a set of parameters describing the intended effects 
of an instruction on the sample composition.

#### **Proposal**
Instruction currently has `op`, and `data` attributes. We propose adding a new attribute called `informatics` 
in our Autoprotocol schema to represent the intended effects of an instruction. A vendor may choose to integrate 
the data specified in `informatics` with their internal LIMS systems. This `informatics` is an optional parameter 
that can accept a list of effects for each instruction. `type` specifies the type of the effect, and `details` is a 
set of parameters to describe the effect.   
We are proposing to only add 'attach_compounds' at this time, but more types 
may be available in the future such as 'purify_compounds', 'liquefy', etc. Here, `refs` is a list of aliquots that are 
affected by the instruction, and `compounds` is a list of compounds that will be attached to the `refs` (for 
'attach_compounds').

```
"instructions": [
  {
    "op": String,
    ...,
    /*
     * optional parameter describing a list of intended effects or changes 
     * for each instruction.
     */
    "informatics": [
      {
        /* type of the effect. */
        "type": Enum("attach_compounds"),
        /* Details of the type. */
        "details": {
          "refs": List(Well) or WellGroup,
          "compounds": List(Compound)
        }
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

#### **Compatibility**
This is a new optional attribute added to the existing schema. The `informatics` field should default to None
value to continue executing instructions without `informatics`.
