#### **Title**
Add `attach_sourcing_info` as a datatype for the `informatics` instruction attribute

#### **Authorship**
Al Colmenar <al.colmenar@strateos.com>

#### **Motivation**
Currently, certain instructions operate on resources that don't contain the information needed to further drill down into the sourcing information associated to a particular container. This additional sourcing information is required when a customer wants to provide the vendor and supplier of the resource to be used in a run. An example of an instruction where this would be useful is the `provision` Autoprotocol instruction which is meant to describe a task of provisioning a container for a given resource.

#### **Proposal**
A new data type for the optional `informatics` attribute on instructions utilizing it will be added. This data type will allow a customer to define the sourcing information for a resource used in a run. Also it will assist the system to properly filter the list of kits associated to a given resource for instructions utilizing resources, e.g. the provision `op`, reducing the list of eligible containers shown when an operator selects the container to use.

Currently, the optional `informatics` attribute only supports the data type, `attach_compounds`. We are proposing to add `attach_sourcing_info` as a data type. The `data` field within the object for the `informatics` attribute will have a format specific to `attach_sourcing_info` containing new string attributes: `vendor` and `supplier`.

```
"instructions": [
  {
    "op": String
    ...,
    /*
     * optional parameter describing a list of intended effects or changes
     * for this instruction.
     */
    "informatics": [
      {
        /* New value for type */
        "type": Enum("attach_sourcing_info"),
        /* Details of the type. */
        "data": {
          "supplier": String,
          "vendor": String
        }
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

#### **Compatibility**
Since this is an addition to the types of data within the informatics attribute, there aren't issues with backwards compatibility.
