#### **Title**
Add `compounds` attribute to aliquot

#### **Authorship**
Asuka Ota <asuka.ota@strateos.com>

#### **Motivation**
Well or aliquot often holds one or many different compounds. However, the current aliquot lacks an attribute for
compounds. Here, we are proposing to add `compounds` attribute to aliquot with parameters including `id` for compound
id, `smiles` for SMILES (Simplified Molecular-Input Line-Entry System) string that captures 2D structure information
of the compound, and `molecular_weight` for the molecular weight of the compound in g/mol. These parameters will be
helpful to carry out conversion between mole and different measurement units to submit instructions. There are many
other compound parameters that might be useful in the future such as compound phase, melting temperature, pKa, etc,
but those parameters will not be included in this proposal for the time being as most of those parameter are yet to
be captured in the web, and will require more work.

#### **Proposal**
We propose to add `compounds` as one of the Well attributes with some compound data.

```
{
  "aliquots": {
    "compounds": [
      {
        /* compound id */
        "id": String
        /* SMILES string notation of the compound. Optional. */
        "smiles": String
        /* Weight of the compound per mole expressed in gram/mole unit. Optional. */
        "molecular_weight": Unit
      }
    ],
    ...
  }
}

```
#### **Execution**
Metadata of compounds referenced to a specific aliquot object will be transferred over as an aliquot's
`compounds` attribute.

#### **Compatibility**
This is a new feature, and it is backwards compatible.