#### **Title**
Cell spreading and colony picking

#### **Authorship**
Jeremy Apthorp <jeremy@transcriptic.com>
Cornelia Scheitz <conny@transcriptic.com>

#### **Motivation**
Many important protocols depend on plating bacteria on agar and picking colonies, processes that cannot currently be represented in Autoprotocol.

#### **Proposal**
We propose two new instructions: `spread` and `autopick`. These instructions are intended to be used with 1- or 6-well SBS microplate pre-filled with agar.

#### **`spread**`
```
{
  "op": "spread",
  "from": well,
  "to": well,
  "volume": volume
}
```

#### **Execution**
Spread the specified volume of the source aliquot evenly across the surface of the agar in the object container.


#### **`autopick**`
#### **Parameters**
```
{
  "op": "autopick",
  "from": well,
  "to": [well],
  "min_colony_count": int     // optional, default: 1
}
```

#### **Execution**
Pick (using a pin tool or pipette tip) at least `min_colony_count` colonies from the `from` well into the `to` wells. If insufficient colonies are available to fill all the `to` wells, the `to` wells should be filled in the order specified until no more colonies are available. If fewer than `min_colony_count` colonies are present in the `from` well, fail the instruction (see the section below on potentially-failing instructions for details).

Imaging and identifying suitable colonies to pick is left to the vendor to implement. Future work may include additional specifications on selecting colonies by particular criteria (e.g. blue/white selection), but that is outside the scope of this document.


#### **Potentially**-failing instructions
A major new concept the `autopick` instruction introduces is that of an operation that can fail. Since it is not guaranteed that enough colonies grew to fulfill the request, we propose that if the number of available colonies is less than the specified `min_colony_count` then pick no colonies at all and _fail_. That is to say, the run should stop and return all containers to their destinations if an insufficient number of colonies are detected.


#### **Compatibility**
This ASC only specifies new instructions.
