#### **Title**
Add flowrate and shape to Dispense; modify nozzle_position

#### **Authorship**
Rhys Ormond <rhys@transcriptic.com>

#### **Motivation**
When handling liquids of different viscosities, `flowrate` is an important variable to control for. For example, more viscous liquids must be dispensed at slower speeds to achieve consistent and accurate dispense volumes.

As reagent dispensers have different dispensing nozzle configurations; a `shape` can be used to enforce a nozzle layout. This has an impact on source container volumes as `pre_dispense` is specified per-nozzle. A `pre_dispense` with shape `{“rows”: 16, “columns”: 1}` will consume twice as much volume as one that has the same `pre_dispense` volume but half as many nozzles.

When specifying `nozzle_position` it’s common to want to specify offsets along a single axis rather than all of them. `position_z` is also commonly specified by devices themselves as the height offset from the holder.

#### **Proposal**
We propose adding optional `flowrate` and `shape` parameters to `dispense`. `flowrate` is intended as a more device-agnostic replacement for `dispense_speed`, deprecating it. If specified, `shape` consists of required `row` and `column` count fields in addition to an optional `format` field that specifies the spacing and offsets for the individual nozzles.

We also propose making each of the `position_x`, `position_y`, and `position_z` parameters optional when specifying a `nozzle_position`.

Finally, we propose that `position_z` specifies the nozzle offset from the holder rather than the well bottom.

```
{
  "op": "dispense",
  /* Volume speed, optional */
  "flowrate": flowrate,
  /* 
   * Shape of dispense operation, optional, default:
   *    {
   *      "rows": 8,
   *      "columns": 1,
   *      “format”: “SBS96”
   *    }
   */
  "shape": {
    "rows": integer,
    "columns": integer,
    “format”: string  // optional
  },
  /* 
   * Nozzle position from the center of the well bottom, optional.
   */
  "nozzle_position": {
    "position_x": length,  // optional
    "position_y": length,  // optional
    “position_z”: length  //optional
  }
}
```

#### **Execution**
`flowrate`, in conjunction with `step_size`, determines the movement frequency of the dispenser’s peristaltic pump. If not specified then it will default to the middle of range of valid dispensing speeds for the step_size.

`shape` determines what dispensing devices can execute this instruction in addition to providing context for per-nozzle-specified volumes.

For each component of the `nozzle_position` if no value is specified then dispense `position_x` and `position_y` will default to 0:millimeter; `position_z` will be default to a vendor-optimized safe offset.

#### **Compatibility**
This change is not backwards compatible as it deprecates `dispense_speed` in favor of `flowrate` in addition to changing the definition of`nozzle_position.position_z`. Vendors should indicate if they are unable to respect any of the new parameters.
