#### **Title**

Time Constraints


#### **Authorship**
Jeremy Apthorp <jeremy@transcriptic.com>


#### **Motivation**
Many protocols involve time-sensitive steps, particularly as they relate to light or temperature-sensitive reagents. A successful execution of such a protocol relies not only on the specific actions taken, but additionally on the timeliness of those actions.


#### **Proposal**
We propose to add a "time_constraints" top-level field to the definition of an Autoprotocol run, which is an array of constraint objects. Each constraint object specifies:
* a "from" timing point,
* a "to" timing point, and
* an upper bound for the time between "from" and "to".


A timing point is one of:
* the start of an instruction,
* the end of an instruction,
* the time at which a container is removed from storage, or
* the time at which a container is returned to storage.


e.g.

```
{
  "refs": {
    "foo": { "id": "ct123534", "store": { ... } }
  },
  "instructions": [
    { "op": "pipette", ... },
    { "op": "incubate", ... }
  ],
  "time_constraints": [
    {
      "from": { "ref_start": "foo" },
      "to": { "ref_end": "foo" },[a][b][c][d]
      "less_than": "5:minute"
    },
    {
      "from": { "instruction_start": 0 },
      "to": { "instruction_end": 1 },[e][f][g][h]
      "less_than": "3:minute"
    }
  ]
}
```


An instruction_start time point is measured after all containers required by an instruction arrive at a device, but before the operation itself begins.


An instruction_end time point is measured as soon as the operation completes, before any containers are considered for transport to their next destination.


A ref_start time point is measured at the time a container leaves its storage environment (freezer, fridge, incubator or supply for "new" containers).


A ref_end time point is measured at the time a container enters its storage environment (freezer, fridge, or incubator) or is discarded.


There are no restrictions on the kinds of time points used in "from" and "to". That is, it is legal to have a constraint between "ref_start" and "instruction_end" (for example).


#### Execution
When executing a run with time constraints, all time constraints must be met. For any given constraint, if the timestamp of the "to" timing point minus the timestamp of the "from" timing point exceeds the upper bound, the constraint is not met.


$$ t_{to} – t_{from} ≤ UB $$


When planning the execution of a protocol, given predictions of the duration of each operation and a list of available devices, a scheduler can determine a feasible execution plan (if one exists). This is an instance of the resource-constrained project scheduling problem, which is well-studied in the literature.


#### **Compatibility**
Tools that consume autoprotocol but do not recognize the "time_constraints" top-level field are free to ignore it, if it is present. An execution may incidentally comply with such constraints, even if the executor does not explicitly make any special effort to do so.


The "time_constraints" top-level field is optional, so any tools which generate autoprotocol will continue to be valid without modification.


When no constraint is specified between timing points, an executor is free to wait for an unlimited amount of time in between timing points, which fact is unchanged by the introduction of optional constraints.
