#### **Title**
Modifying instruction: `liquid_handle`

#### **Authorship**
Asuka Ota <asuka.ota@strateos.com>

#### **Motivation**
`liquid handle` allows the transfer of liquid from one container to one or more other containers. The viscosity of
liquid samples used in the laboratory ranges from very fluid (ie. acetone) to very thick (ie. glycerol). A limitation
to the current `liquid_handle` instruction is that there are only two modes of volumetric manipulation available:
dispense and air-displacement. While this is sufficient for liquids with relatively low viscosity, they should not be
used for viscous samples due to the inability for air pressure to overcome surface tension. To provide a more accurate
way to handle these samples, 'positive-displacement' method is added to `mode`, and 'viscous' is added to
`liquid_class`. Furthermore, there are devices that are capable of requesting liquid transfer amount in mass instead of volume. To allow such , optional density parameter
should be added to convert mass to volume (and vice versa) as needed.

#### **Proposal**
We propose a more versatile `liquid_handle` instruction to support positive-displacement mode, and optional density
field in addition to the currently-available capabilities.

```
{
  “op”: “liquid_handle”,
  /* Parameters describing the transport of liquid locations, speed, acceleration and any other device-specific parameters that may need to be provided by the user. Optional */
  “locations”: List[{
    transports: [
        {
          /* Density of the liquid being handled. If this value is specified, the transport volume is converted
          to mass. Optional. */
          "density": Unit
          "mode_params": [{
            /* Type of liquid transported. Optional. */
            "liquid_class": Enum("air", "default", "viscous")
          }]
          ...
        }
    ],
    ...
  }],
  /* Allowed modes for liquid handling. 'positive-displacement' should be included as a new mode. 'positive-displacement' mode will use the same mode_params as other modes. */
  “mode”: Enum(“air_displacement”, ”dispense”, “positive_displacement”)
}
```

#### **Execution**
Vendors must ensure that devices present in the execution environment are capable of respecting specific mode and transport parameters, and that optional parameters default to sensible values when unspecified.

#### **Compatibility**
This change is backwards compatible; there are enough unit tests to ensure the changes will not break any existing operations and features.
