#### **Title**

Modify `autopick` instruction to allow for batching autopick analysis and allow for a list of wells to be used as a source


#### **Authorship**

Peter Lee <peter@transcriptic.com>

Ian O'Hara <ian@transcriptic.com>

Cornelia Scheitz <conny@transcriptic.com>

#### **Motivation**

Analysis of several `autopick`s from the same container share many analysis steps. Restructuring `autopick` enables it to be faster by using a single analysis step.

Allowing the `from` parameter to be a list of wells instead of a single well allows picking colonies across different wells (e.g. to take advantage of varying spread densities).

The `min_colony_count` parameter was ill-defined and will be deprecated in favor of a `min_abort` parameter. The run will be cancelled if the number of colonies detected in the aggregate from well(s) of the associated pick group is less than the parameter `min_abort`.


#### **Proposal**

Change `autopick` to have a list of pick groups instead of a single pick. All pick groups in the list will be analyzed at the same time and data for each pick group will be reported under the same `dataref`.

Allow each pick group to specify multiple source wells across which colonies are ranked and picked.

Each well in each from list of wells within a single autopick instruction must be from the same container.

Addition of the `min_abort` parameter to denote total number of colonies that must be detected in the aggregate list of from wells to avoid aborting the entire run.

Deprecation of `min_colony_count` parameter to reduce ambiguity of the instruction.


```
{
  "op": "autopick",
  "dataref": string,
  "criteria": {} // optional, default {}
  "groups": [
    {
  	"from": [well],
  	"to": [well],
	"min_abort": int,	// per aggregated from well(s), optional, default: 0
    },  // all wells in the "from" parameters must be from the same container
  ]
}
```

**Examples:**

Example 1: Picking from one source to multiple destination wells (replicating previous `autopick` instruction).

```
{
  "op": "autopick",
  "dataref": "pick_from_one”,
  "groups": [
    {
  	"from": ["src_plate/A1"],
  	"to": ["dest_plate_1/A1", "dest_plate_1/A2"]
    }
  ]
}
```

Example 2: Picking from multiple source wells to multiple destination wells (pick colonies across all sources) using the same source plate but multiple destination plates.


```
{
  "op": "autopick",
  "dataref": "pick_from_one”,
  "groups": [
    {
  	"from": ["src_plate/A1", "src_plate/A2", "src_plate/A3"],
  	"to": ["dest_plate_1/A1", "dest_plate_1/A2"],
	"min_abort": 2
    },
    {
  	"from": ["src_plate/A4", "src_plate/A5", "src_plate/A6"],
  	"to": ["dest_plate_2/A3", "dest_plate_2/A4", "dest_plate_2/A5", 
 "dest_plate_2/A6", "dest_plate_2/A7", "dest_plate_2/A8"]
    }
  ]
}
```

#### **Compatibility**

This change is not backward compatible with the previous `autopick` instruction.

Previous `autopick` instructions should be updated to nest picks under the `groups` parameter of `autopick`. The `from` parameter should be updated to take a list of wells as opposed to a single well. See example 1 for more information on how to convert a previous `autopick` instruction to be in accordance with this change.

The parameter `min_colony_count`: int, // optional, default: 1
will be supported until March 31st 2016 - afterwards it will be ignored. Before, March 31st 2016, if a group's aggregated from well(s) in the instruction contains fewer colonies than specified in this parameter there will be 0 colonies picked from these well(s), however the run will continue.

