#### **Title**
Add a constraint for the ideal execution time between two Autoprotocol events

#### **Authorship**
Yang Choo <yang@transcriptic.com>

#### **Motivation**
The existing time constraint implementation only allows for hard time window boundaries. Allowing for ideal time specification enables the scheduler to further optimize to a specific time using a cost function to weigh the impact of deviations on that time. The introduction of an ideal time provides greater control on the schedule and may lead to more consistent schedule execution.

#### **Proposal**
We propose to add an "ideal" field to the "time_constraints" top-level field. This is an object with a "value" and "optimization_cost" field

The time difference between two timing points shall occur as close to the "value" field as possible. There will be an associated "optimization_cost" term for calculating a penalty for any deviation. The value specified in the "optimization_cost" will map to the corresponding type of function for calculating the cost.

Previous "more_than" and "less_than" time constraints will remain respected and serve as an effective upper and lower bound.

See the **Execution** section below for more details.

```
"time_constraints" : [
  {
  ...,
  /** optional */
  "ideal": {
    "value": time,
    /** optional */
    "optimization_cost": Enum("linear", "squared", "exponential")   // default: "linear"
  },
  ...
  }
]
```
e.g.
```
{
  "refs": {
    "foo": { "id": "ct123534", "store": { ... } }
  },
  "instructions": [ ... ],
  "time_constraints": [
    {
      "from": { "ref_start": "foo" },
      "to": { "instruction_end": 1 },
      "ideal": {
        "value": "5:minute",
        "optimization_cost": "linear"
      }
    },
    {
      "from": { "ref_start": "foo" },
      "to": { "instruction_end": 1 },
      "less_than": "7:minute"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### **Execution**
Existing "more_than" and "less_than" time constraints will remain respected, i.e. time constraints will still be violated if the execution time is above the "more_than" or below the "less_than" time constraints.
If "more_than" and/or "less_than" time constraints are not present, there  will be no hard upper and/or lower bounds respectively.

If applicable, a vendor shall ensure that the time difference between the two timing points and the "ideal" time "value" is minimized across all time constraints for the entire execution according to the "optimization_cost" function. This difference will be calculated according to the vendor's smallest quantized time unit, which could be in seconds. 

The "optimization_cost" strings will follow the following penalty system:

  - "linear": $|x - value|$
  - "squared": $(x - value)^2$
  - "exponential": $e^{(|x - value|)}$

See the `Mathematical Primer on Ideal Time Constraint Implementation` section below for a more detailed primer on how the different time constraints may be interpreted mathematically.


#### **Compatibility**
This change is backwards compatible. Users should ensure vendor support of this field.


#### *Mathematical Primer on Ideal Time Constraint Implementation*

Generally, if we were to assume the same cost function g is applied to all constraints, the overall cost function to minimize for *m* total constraints will be:
$$
min_{x \epsilon \mathbb{R}} (\sum^m_{i=1} g_i (x_i, d_i, lb_i, ub_i) )
$$

Notation:

 - Constraint *i*
 - variable to be minimized *x*
 - "optimization_cost" function *g*
 - "ideal" value *d*
 - "lower_bound" value *lb* (if present)
 - "upper_bound" value *ub* (if present)

Note that if a "lower_bound" or "upper_bound" is present, we can effectively think of any values beyond those boundaries as mathematically infinite for a minimization problem.

For a "optimization_cost" function which is "linear", we can think of this mathematically as a piecewise function:

$$ 
g(x, d, lb, ub) = \left\{
  \begin{array}{lr}
    | x - d| &: lb < x < ub\\
    \infty & : x \le lb \\
    \infty & : x \ge ub
  \end{array}
\right.
$$


Similarly, for an "optimization_cost" function which is "squared":

$$
g(x, d, lb, ub) = \left\{
  \begin{array}{lr}
    (x - d)^2 &: lb < x < ub\\
    \infty & : x \le lb \\
    \infty & : x \ge ub
  \end{array}
\right.
$$


For an "optimization_cost" function which is "exponential":

$$
g(x, d, lb, ub) = \left\{
  \begin{array}{lr}
    e^{(|x - d|)} &: lb < x < ub\\
    \infty & : x \le lb \\
    \infty & : x \ge ub
  \end{array}
\right.
$$
