#### **Title**
Add `shaking_params` and `target_temperature` to Incubate instruction


#### **Authorship**
Vanessa Biggers <vanessa@transcriptic.com>


#### **Motivation**
Add optional `shaking_params` and `target_temperature` to the Incubate instruction to allow setting a frequency, path of movement, and target temperature to an incubation.  This allows for use of devices such as Thermoshakes, where shaking patterns and temperatures can be designated.  Many protocols require specific shaking frequencies at specified temperatures which can be achieved through this autoprotocol standard change.


#### **Proposal**


The `incubate` instruction should take additional, optional parameters `"shaking_params"` and `"target_temperature"` to specify optional frequency, path of object movement and temperature of an incubation.


```
{
  "op": "incubate",
  "object": container,
  "where": string,
  "duration": duration,
  "shaking": bool,
  "co2_percent": decimal,  //optional, default: 0
  "target_temperature" : temperature, //optional
   /* optional/*
  "shaking_params": {
    "path": string, //default cw_orbital
    "frequency": frequency // required if “path” specified
    "amplitude": length // default 2mm
  }
}
```
The combination of temperature, frequency, path of shake, and CO2 levels available will be determined by the vendor.




#### **Execution**
Not all vendors/devices will be able to support the additional optional parameters.


To access a thermoshake device, both a valid “path” and a “frequency” must be included.  Current supported values in `shaking_params` and `target_temperature` are below:




| Parameter | Type | Capability |
|--|--|--|
| target_temperature | temperature | 4 - 70 degrees C|
| path | string | "cw_orbital" (clockwise orbital), "ccw_orbital"(counterclockwise orbital), "portrait_linear" (portrait linear), "landscape_linear" (landscape linear),  "cw_diamond" (clockwise diamond), "ccw_diamond" (counterclockwise diamond)|
| amplitude | string | 2mm |
| frequency | frequency | 0, 100 - 2000 rpm |
	


The “where” parameter references the location of the incubate instruction and not the temperature of the device (if available). For example, a thermoshake device could be located at “ambient” temperature but the device temperature could be set to shaking with 25 degrees C with the following code:


```
{
  "op": "incubate",
  "object": "my_plate",
  "where": "ambient",
  "duration": "10:minute",
  "shaking": True,
  "target_temperature": "25:celsius",
  "shaking_params": {
    "path": "cw_orbital"  ,
    "frequency": "700:rpm"
  } 
}
```








#### **Compatibility**
This ASC specifies new fields for existing instructions. Incubate instructions without these optional parameters will duplicate the previous behavior.  


#### **Addendum 1: Clarification on `shaking_params` `path`**


"portrait_linear": This refers to a linear shaking path along the width (the shorter side) of the plate, i.e. from A1 to B1


"landscape_linear": This refers to a linear shaking path along the length (the longer side) of the plate, i.e. from A1 to A2


