#### **Title**

Addition of gel_purify


#### **Authorship**

Ben Miles <ben@transcriptic.com>


#### **Motivation**

Often in cloning it is necessary to separate a gel fragment from a PCR product or digestion product. This is typically done by first running a gel then extracting the band corresponding to the DNA fragment. This functionality is missing from Autoprotocol.


#### **Proposal**

The `gel_purify` instruction performs similar to the `gel_separate` instruction however takes an additional `extract` array. `extract` is an array of extraction groups, which may each have different sub parameters. `elution_volume` is the final volume that a returned solution of extracted DNA should be returned in. `elution_buffer` is the solution that the purified DNA should be returned in. `lane` is the gel lane from which DNA should `extract`ed. `band_size_range` is the base pair size range from which the band should be extracted from it takes two arguments `min_bp` and `max_bp`. Finally each `extract`ion group takes a destination well.

```
{
  "op": "gel_purify",
  "volume": volume,
  "objects": [wells],
  "matrix": gel,
  "ladder": ladder,
  "dataref": string,
  "extract": [{
    "elution_volume": volume,
    "elution_buffer": string "water" | "TE",
    "lane": int,
    "band_size_range": {
      "min_bp": int,
      "max_bp": int,
    },
    "destination": well
  }, 
  {...}]
}

```



#### **Execution**

When loading gel lanes they should be loaded sequentially concomitant with the sequence of wells provided to the gel_separate instruction. E.g Well A2, could be at index 0 of the WellGroup there should be loaded into lane 0. Well A1 could be at index 7 of the WellGroup therefore should be loaded into lane 7 of the gel.

The data returned by this instruction should both illustrate the size of fragments in the solution either by image, or numeric chromatogram. In addition it should illustrate the fragment collection, be that a annotation on the gel image or a gated region of the chromatogram

Vendor sets the max tolerable size range (max-min) for band extraction.

Gel separation, extraction and purification methods to be determined by vendor.


#### **Compatibility**

This is a new instruction and does not affect compatibility.
