#### **Title**

Sanger Sequencing - RCA


#### **Authorship**

Cornelia Scheitz <conny@transcriptic.com>



#### **Motivation**

In addition to basic plasmid sequencing, bacteria can also be a source to submit for sequencing utilizing rolling-circle-amplification (RCA) to generate DNA. Since this is carried out by the sequencing facility, these add-ons should be part of the sequencing instruction.


#### **Proposal**
```
{
    "op": "sanger_sequence",
    "type": "standard | rca", //default: standard
    "object": container,
    "wells": [well_index],
    "dataref": string
    "primer": container //only required for rca, tube containing sufficient primer for all sequencing reactions
}
```

#### **Execution**

The container specified will be sent to the sequencing device or service and subsequently destroyed. The specified wells will be sequenced through the Sanger chemistry.

For the standard type: the specified wells should already contain the appropriate mix for sequencing, including primers and DNA according to the instructions provided by the vendor.

For type RCA: The specified wells should already contain 15 µL of bacterial solution. The primer to be used for sequencing is indicated in the "primer" parameter and must be a container with sufficient primer volume for all sequencing reactions in this instruction plus some vendor defined dead-volume. Only one primer per container is permitted.



#### **Compatibility**

This ASC adds 2 new parameters. Instructions without "type" will be considered of "type": "standard" and thus ensure backwards compatibility.
