#### **Title**
Add read position parameters to `spectrophotometry` instruction

#### **Authorship**
Yang Choo <yang@transcriptic.com>

#### **Motivation**
The z-axis positioning of the probe has a critical impact on the read values returned. This is a common feature that's exposed in various plate-readers, and a common paradigm is to either manually set the probe-height or allow that to be automatically determined based on a device-specific algorithm.


#### **Proposal**
We propose adding optional mode_parameters to the `spectrophotometry` instruction to address the need outlined in the motivation.

The parameters outlined closely follow conventions from ASC-026.

```
{
  "op": "spectrophotometry",
  …,
  "groups": [
    {
        /** optional params for all modes */
        "mode_params": {
          /** all params below are optional */
          "read_position": Enum("top", "bottom"),
          "position_z": {
            "manual": {
                "displacement": Length,  // displacement of probe from reference. E.g. if probe is below reference, displacement is negative
                "reference": Enum("plate_bottom", "plate_top", "well_bottom", "well_top")
              },
            "calculated_from_wells": {
                "wells": List(wells),
                "heuristic": Enum("max_mean_read_without_saturation", "closest_distance_without_saturation")
            }
        }
    }
  ]
}
```

#### **Execution**
The `position_z` parameters control the z-axis positioning of the probe. When set to `manual`, the probe will be positioned the stated length from the reference point.

If `calculated_from_wells` is specified, the z-axis distance of the probe will be calculated from the selected `wells` using the specified `heuristic`.

`closest_distance_without_saturation` refers to the z-position which is closest to the reference without obtaining saturated values for any of the specified wells.

`max_mean_read_with_saturation` refers to the z-position which corresponds to the maximum signal from the mean readings per height, excluding heights with saturated readings. If there is a tie amongst the mean values, the closest distance to the reference is taken.

Only either `manual` or `calculated_from_wells` should be specified.

As always, all non-specified parameters will be interpreted as not critical for the experiment execution and will be left to the vendor to decide on the appropriate defaults.

#### **Compatibility**
This is entirely backwards compatible as only new parameters are added. Vendors should indicate if they are unable to respect any of the parameters.
