#### **Title**
Modify `stamp` to accept multi-channel (whole row(s) or column(s)) operations

#### **Authorship**
Yang Choo <yangchoo@transcriptic.com>

Peter Lee <peter@transcriptic.com>

Ian O’Hara <ian@transcriptic.com>

#### **Motivation**
A more granular multi-channel liquid transfer instruction is required to encompass multi-channel pipetting from/to whole row(s) or whole column(s) (or logical subsets of row(s) or column(s)) of a multi-well plate as defined by SBS recommendations of microplates as a superset of the previous stamp instruction.

#### **Proposal**
Rename `quadrant` to `origin` and add a new `shape` field.

As before, `origin` has the same form as the `well` type (that is, ":ref/:well_index"), where `:well_index` refers to the top-left well of a shape.

`shape` takes in the parameter `rectangle` which is a dictionary defined with keys `rows`,`columns` that describe the shape of the rectangle as defined by the number of wells being transferred in each direction. (e.g. {"rows": 8, "columns": 1}).

`tip_layout` specifies SBS standard-compliant layout of the tips used for the specified transfer operation. Common SBS tip layouts include 96, 384 and 1536.

Some vendor specific restrictions may apply.

For example, in `rectangle`, values for `rows` or `columns` may be constrained to either 8 or 12 respectively with the other key taking values between [1 8] or [1 12]. In the example given, [5 8] and [12 4] are acceptable shape definitions while [5 7] and [9 4] are unacceptable.

As another example, `shape` and `tip_layout` may be restricted such that the same `shape` and `tip_layout` must be used in all transfers throughout a single `stamp` instruction.

Finally, `tip_layout` might be restricted to only certain layouts, like 96.

```
{
  "op": "stamp",
  "transfers": [
    {
      "from": origin,
      "to": origin,
  "shape": rectangle,  // optional, default: {"rows": 8, "columns": 12}
  "tip_layout" : integer,  // optional, default: 96
"volume": volume,

  // same mix options as a 'transfer' group in the 'pipette' instruction
      "mix_before": {...},
      "mix_after": {...}
    }
  ]
}
```
Examples:

Example 1: A 96-well to 384-well quadrant transfer omitting the optional shape field.

```
  "transfers": [{ "from": "src_plate/A1", "to": "dest_plate/B2" }]
```

Example 2: A transfer from the G row to the H row of another 96-well plate.

```
  "transfers": [{
    "from": "src_plate/G1",
    "to": "dest_plate/H1",
    "shape": { "rows": 1, "columns": 12 },
    "tip_layout" : 96
  }]
```

Example 3: A 2-column transfer from columns 1,2 to columns 2,3 of 384-well plates with the specification that all wells in the columns are transferred.

```
  "transfers": [{
    "from": "src_plate/A1",
    "to": "dest_plate/B1",
    "shape": { "rows": 16, "columns": 2},
    "tip_layout" : 384
  }]
```

Example 4: A series of row transfers from one source row to multiple destination rows of a 96-well plate using the same shape and tip_layout.

```
  "transfers": [
    {
      "from": "src_plate/A1",
      "to": "dest_plate/A1",
      "shape": { "rows": 1, "columns": 12 },
      "tip_layout" : 96
    },
    {
      "from": "src_plate/A1",
      "to": "dest_plate/B1",
      "shape": { "rows": 1, "columns": 12 }
      "tip_layout" : 96
    }
  ]
```

#### **Compatibility**
This change extends the existing stamp operation with the addition of the `shape` and `tip_layout` parameters.

The default value for the optional `shape` parameter is `{"rows": 8, "columns": 12}` and for the optional `tip_layout` parameter is 96 which replicates the behavior of the previous stamp operation and allows for backwards compatibility.
