#### **Title**
Add `cycles` parameter to illumina_sequence

#### **Authorship**

Meenakshi Doma <meenakshidoma@transcriptic.com>

Conny Scheitz <conny@transcriptic.com>


#### **Motivation**
Allow for choice of number of sequencing cycles of read 1, read 2 sequencing primers and the index 1 and index 2 reads for multiplexed libraries. 


#### **Proposal**
The number of sequencing cycles determine the sequencing read length. Add `cycles` parameter to Illumina_sequence instruction for specifying read length of read 1, read 2, index 1 and index 2 primers.


```
{
  "op": "illumina_sequence",
  "flowcell": "SR" | "PE",
  "lanes": [
    {
       "object": aliquot,
       "library_concentration": decimal,  // ng/uL,
    }
  ]
  "sequencer": "miseq" | "hiseq" | "nextseq",
  "mode": "rapid" | "mid"| "high",
  "index": "single" | "dual"| "none",
  "cycles": //optional, vendor default  
{
   "read_1": integer, required if cycles is set
   "read_2": integer, optional,
   "index_1": integer, optional, default to 0
   "index_2": integer, optional, default to 0
}
  "library_size": integer,  // in bp
  "dataref": string
}
```

`index`:
The index sequences are unique identifiers added to DNA samples during library preparation that allows multiplexing of libraries for sequencing on Illumina SR or PE flowcells. `single` index sequencing refers to a separate read called the index 1 (i7) read that is done after read 1. When libraries are `dual` indexed, the sequencing run includes 2 additional reads called the Index 1 (i7) read and Index 2 (i5) read. If there is no multiplexing of libraries, then the `none` option applies.  The index sequences are specific to library prep kits and compatible sequencers specific to the vendor.


`cycles`: 
`cycles` refers to the read length or number of sequenced bases. Each bp is sequenced one cycle at a time. These cycles can be split into two reads, providing paired reads of the same DNA fragment. The `read_1` and `read_2` cycles refer to the sequencing cycles of the read 1 and read 2 primers. Single read (`SR`) flowcell allows only `read_1` cycles and paired end (`PE`) flowcell allows both `read_1` and `read_2` sequencing cycles. The `index_1`and `index_2` cycles can go to a maximum number of 8.  All `read_1` and `read_2` sequencing must contain more than 25 cycles to generate FASTQ files. Depending on the available instruments, their compatible reagents and the type of flowcell (SR vs PE), upto a maximum of 300-600 cycles of sequence data can be obtained as shown below.  The cycles required to read the `index` reads do not count against this maximum number. Most common applications of NGS for RNA/DNA use 50, 75, 100, 150 cycles for both single read and paired end read flowcells. 

The table below lists the maximum cycle numbers specified by currently available kits for Illumina sequencers.

| cycles            | miseq | nextseq | hiseq |
|-------------------|-------|---------|-------|
| Read 1 and Read 2 |   600 |     300 |   500 |
| Index 1           |     8 |       8 |     8 |
| Index 2           |     8 |       8 |     8 |


`cycles` is a optional vendor-specific parameter that is specific for the various sequencers and their compatible versions of cluster kits, SBS reagents and sequencer control software for a specific flow cell. `cycles`parameter can be customized if customers choose to use the full flowcell during a sequencing run. Please check vendor’s documentation for availability of `cycles` number specific to each sequencer and associated reagents and software.  The default for the `cycles` in the `Illumina_seq` instruction will set to the vendor’s availability of instrument and default flowcell choice. 




#### **Compatibility**


This ASC appends new optional parameter to Illumina_sequence instruction.
