#### **Title**
Add Stamp Instruction (96-channel pipetting)

#### **Authorship**
Ian O’Hara <ian@transcriptic.com>

Jeremy Apthorp <jeremy@transcriptic.com>

Tali Herzka <tali@transcriptic.com>

#### **Motivation**
An instruction is needed to specify 96-channel simultaneous liquid handling (also referred to as stamping).  This is generally done to transfer liquid from all wells of one 96-well plate to another or to reformat one plate type into another (for example, reformat four 96-well plates onto a single 384-well plate).

#### **Proposal**
A stamp instruction consists of a list of `transfers`, each of which specifies `from` and `to` well references representing the top-left well of a quadrant.  The `volume` field specifies the volume of liquid that will be aspirated from every well of the `from` quadrant and dispensed into the corresponding well of the `to` quadrant.

```
{
  "op": "stamp",
  "transfers": [
    {
      "from": quadrant,
      "to": quadrant,
      "volume": volume,

    // same mix options as a 'transfer' group in the 'pipette' instruction
      "mix_before": {...},
      "mix_after": {...}
    }
  ]
}
```

The `quadrant` type is new, and has the same form as the `well` type (that is, `":ref/:well_index"`), with the restriction that `:well_index` must refer to the top-left well of a quadrant. What this means is vendor-specific (see below for details).

#### **Execution**
Accepted quadrants depend on the types of the source and destination containers.  A vendor is responsible for determining allowable container types and quadrant definitions.

For example, in the context of 96-well plates, only well A1 may be referenced.  On 384-well plates, each of the four 96-well containing quadrants can be specified using the well indices A1, A2, B1, or B2 respectively.  A vendor may choose to support other container types and/or quadrant definitions based on their hardware.
