#### **Title**

Add `gain` to fluorescence instructions


#### **Authorship**

Peter Lee <peter@transcriptic.com>


#### **Motivation**

The current fluorescence instruction is underspecified in terms of how and if signal is being amplified. Adding a gain parameter to the fluorescence instruction will allow for the ability to control for how signal from fluorescence emission is amplified.

This parameter will allow users to control the amount of signal amplification enabling the comparison of results between plates and over time.


#### **Proposal**

The `fluorescence` instruction should accept the additional optional parameter of `gain`.

`gain` will be a float from 0 to 1 representing the fraction of maximal signal amplification that a fluorescence reading device can provide.

Vendor specific limitations may apply to the availability of this optional parameter and the sensitivity available to changes in gain (different vendors may have different step sizes for the gain parameter and/or round to the closest step size).

```
  
  {
    "op": "fluorescence",
    "object": container,
    "wells": [
      well
    ],
    "excitation": length,
    "emission": length,
    "num_flashes": integer,
    "dataref": string,
    "temperature": temperature,
    "incubate_before": {
      "duration": time,
      "shaking": {
        "amplitude": length,
        "orbital": bool
      },
    /* optional, if the parameter is not specified, signal amplification will     
       employ vendor specified defaults */
    "gain": float
    }
  }

```

#### **Execution**

The `gain` parameter represents a fraction of maximal signal amplification and may need to be rounded to the nearest step if signal amplification is non-linear. If an optimal gain finding feature is available, it's recommended to use such a feature when the gain parameter is not specified. It is also recommended to report the gain setting used in the dataref of the instruction.


#### **Compatibility**

This ASC specifies a new field for existing instructions. Fluorescence instructions without this optional parameter will read plates in the vendor specified default manner previously used.