#### **Title**

Illumina Sequence

#### **Authorship**

Meenakshi Doma <meenakshidoma@transcriptic.com>

Conny Scheitz <conny@transcriptic.com>


#### **Motivation**
Next generation sequencing is a set of modern techniques to determine the DNA or transcriptome sequence of organisms. Here we propose an instruction for Illumina Sequencing. 


#### **Proposal**
Samples will be presented in aliquots and loaded on the indicated lane on a flowcell. Currently, commercial sequencers available are `miseq`, `nextseq` and `hiseq` and their availability is vendor specific.
Data will be named according to `dataref` and presented on a S3 server for use with other 3rd party tools.


```
{
  "op": "illumina_sequence",
  "flowcell": "SR" | "PE",
  "lanes": [
    {
       "object": aliquot,
       "library_concentration": decimal,  // ng/uL,
    }
  ]
  "sequencer": "miseq" | "hiseq" | "nextseq",
  "mode": "rapid" | "mid"| "high",
  "index": "single" | "dual"| "none",
  "library_size": integer,  // in bp
  "dataref": string
}
```

`flowcell`: Single-read flowcell (SR) or Paired-end flowcell (PE). A single flowcell can be either single-read or paired end read. Applies to all Illumina sequencers. Both single-end read and paired-end read use standard sequencing primers compatible with Illumina instruments.


`lanes`: `lanes` is a group where each item corresponds to a lane run on the sequencer. Each lane has an `object` which is the aliquot to load and `library_concentration` which is the concentration of the `object` in ng/ul. The number of `lanes` available per sequencing run depends on the sequencer chosen. For `miseq` lane maximum is 1, for `hiseq` lane maximum is 8, for `nextseq` lane maximum is 4 .


`mode`: The `mode` parameter is `sequencer` and vendor specific and details will be provided by each vendor. Generally, `high` mode generates the maximum amount of data at normal speed, `rapid` has faster execution but fewer reads. `miseq` has a single mode of `high` output. `hiseq` has `rapid` and `high` output modes. `nextseq` has `mid` and `high` output modes. 


`library_size`: Common library sizes are 200-900. Anything higher than 1000 will give sub-optimal clustering efficiency on Illumina sequencers. This parameter depends on the library preparation method and sequencer chosen.


#### **Compatibility**
This ASC only specifies new instructions.
