#### **Title**
Add `dispense_speed`, `nozzle_position`, and `pre_dispense` to the dispense instruction


#### **Authorship**
Jim Culver <jim@transcriptic.com>


#### **Motivation**
A number of different parameters can affect the accuracy of reagent dispensing, including the dispense speed, nozzle position, and pre-dispense volume. Commercial reagent dispensers are commonly designed to control these parameters, and many protocols rely on tuning these parameters to optimize liquid handling. Since controlling these parameters is important for a number of applications, the dispense instruction should be updated so that they can be explicitly specified.


#### **Proposal**
The `dispense` instruction should accept the additional optional parameters of `dispense_speed`, `nozzle_position`, and `pre_dispense`.


`dispense_speed` should represent the speed of the peristaltic pump mechanism in units of `rpm`. The set of allowable values for `dispense_speed` will depend on the available hardware, and will therefore be vendor specific.


`nozzle_position` should represent the x, y, and z position of the nozzle with respect to the bottom center of the well. This should be specified as a dictionary of key/value pairs, where all values are given as lengths, and the keys are as follows: `position_x`, `position_y`, and `position_z`. The set of allowable values for `position_x`, `position_y`, and `position_z` will depend on the available hardware, and will therefore be vendor specific.


`pre_dispense` should represent the volume that should be automatically dispensed and discarded prior to the start of the dispense operation. This is distinct from the priming operation that is typically executed whenever the reagent source is switched. `pre_dispense` should be specified as a volume and should be an integer multiple of the `step_size`. The set of allowable values for `pre_dispense` will depend on the available hardware, and will therefore be vendor specific.


```
  {
    "op": "dispense",
    "object": container,
    "reagent": reagent,
    "columns": [
      {"column": column, "volume": volume}
    ],
    /* optional */
    "dispense_speed": rpm,
    /* optional */
    "nozzle_position": {
        "position_x": length,
        "position_y": length,
        "position_z": length
    },
    /* optional */
    "pre_dispense": volume,
    /* optional */
    "step_size": volume
    }
  }
```


#### **Execution**
These parameters specify how the given dispense instruction should be executed. There may be vendor-specific and/or device-specific limitations on what parameters can be used.


#### **Compatibility**
This ASC specifies new fields for an existing instruction. Dispense instructions without these optional parameters will continue to be executed using vendor-specified defaults.

