#### **Title**
Add `step_size` and `reagent_source` to the dispense instruction


#### **Authorship**
Jim Culver <jim@transcriptic.com>


#### **Motivation**
For dispense operations, the volume that may be dispensed is often limited to certain values, depending on the hardware being used. One such limit is when the dispensed volume must be an integer multiple of some fundamental volume step size. This type of limitation is common among reagent dispensers that utilize a peristaltic pump mechanism, because these dispensers must transfer liquid in discrete steps. Adding `step_size` as an optional parameter to the dispense instruction will therefore allow a protocol to restrict which devices can be used to execute a given dispense operation.


While dispense instructions commonly use a single resource as the reagent source, it is sometimes desirable to dispense a mixture of different reagents that has been freshly prepared during the run. Adding `reagent_source` as an optional parameter will account for this situation by making it possible to specify a well that can be used as the dispense source.


#### **Proposal**
The `dispense` instruction should accept the additional optional parameters of `step_size` and `reagent_source`.


`step_size` must be a string representation of a volume unit, and will denote that the instruction must be executed on a device with a matching `step_size`. The list of allowable values for `step_size` will depend on the available hardware, and so it will be vendor specific.


`reagent_source` must be a well containing the reagent to be dispensed. This is an optional parameter, so if not specified, then the dispense instruction will be executed using vendor-supplied reagents matching the name or resource id specified by the `reagent` or `resource_id` parameters (as it has in the past). If this parameter is specified, however, then the dispense instruction will be executed using the specified well as the reagent source. One and only one of [`reagent`, `resource_id`, `reagent_source`] must be specified.


```
  {
    "op": "dispense",
    "object": container,
    /* optional */
    "reagent": reagent,
    /* optional */
    "resource_id": string,
    /* optional */
    "reagent_source": well,
    "columns": [
      {"column": column, "volume": volume}
    ],
    /* optional */
    "step_size": volume
    }
  }
```


#### **Execution**
The `step_size` parameter specifies what type of hardware can be used to execute the given dispense instruction. The instruction should only be carried out using reagent dispensers that are capable of using this `step_size`. Note that the `volume` being dispensed into each column must be an integer multiple of `step_size`.


The `reagent_source` parameter specifies what well should be used as the reagent source for the given dispense instruction. There may be vendor-specific and/or device-specific limitations on what container types may be used as the `reagent_source`.


#### **Compatibility**
This ASC specifies new fields for an existing instruction. Dispense instructions without the optional `step_size` parameter will continue to be executed using the device that corresponds to the vendor specified default. Dispense instructions without the `reagent_source` parameter will continue to be executed using the vendor-supplied reagent, as specified by the `reagent` or `resource_id` parameters.
