#### **Title**
Container Sets


#### **Authorship**
Peter Lee <peter@transcriptic.com>

Yang Choo <yangchoo@transcriptic.com>

Rhys Ormond <ormondr@transcriptic.com>


#### **Motivation**
In biology, the same operations are often done to sets of containers. We would like to formalize this with the introduction of sets. The first implementation of sets would allow plates that hold the same things to be grouped into their own sets. These sets would indicate that plates could be treated similarly and be ordered in accordance with the executor.


Future implementations could allow sets to be used throughout as source or destinations in an aliquot. Setting an aliquot to use a set + well reference would indicate that the instruction should be performed on each container in the set at the given well reference. This could help to demonstrate the parallelism of experiments as they are run on several plates.


Notably, sets are not ordered and plates in sets are unique (the same plate cannot be in a set more than once).


#### **Proposal**
We propose to add a "sets" top-level field to the definition of an Autoprotocol run, which is an dict of string set names and their corresponding dict of refs.


E.g.        
```
{
  "refs": {
    "foo": { "id": "ct1", "discard": true },
    "bar": { "id": "ct2", "discard": true },
    "baz": { "id": "ct3", "discard": true }
  },
  "sets": {
    "cells": ["foo", "bar"],
    "enzyme": ["bar", "baz"],
    "read": ["foo", "baz"]
  }
}

```


The refs in sets must be in the refs section.


#### **Execution**
Grouping refs into a set indicates that the refs can be treated similarly, stacked, etc. If refs are used in Autoprotocol instructions, the order of refs may be constrained by their order in the Autoprotocol instruction. The vendor should respect Autoprotocol instruction order, but use refs belonging to sets in parallel instructions in whatever way vendors have optimized.


#### **Compatibility**
Tools that consume autoprotocol but do not recognize the "sets" top-level field are free to ignore it, if it is present.


The "sets" top-level field is optional, so any tools which generate autoprotocol will continue to be valid without modification.


